I'm Phil Gail welcome to the program US
President Joe Biden has issued an
executive order imposing sanctions on
Israeli settlers in the occupied West
Bank following a wave of violence
measures include the FI include
financial and travel restrictions on a
small number of settlers accused of
violent attacks on Palestinians Israeli
Prime Minister's office has criticized
the sanctions as unnecessary and
described the vast majority of settlers
as
law-abiding straight to our Washington
bureau chief Inus Paul welcome enus what
more do we know about the president's
latest executive
order well pH this executive order will
enable the United States to impose
Financial sanctions on individuals who
are I quote here uh directing or
participating in certain actions
including acts of threats or of violence
uh against civilians intimidating
civilians to force them out of their
homes destroying or seizing property or
engaging uh in Terrorist activity uh in
the West Bank uh we typically see these
types of financial sanctions targeting
Russians or or citizens of states that
the US is in openly conflict with but we
have never seen that targeting Israeli
citizens and so does this tell anything
about the sort of pressure that Mr Biden
must be under at the
moment absolutely this Phill is really
indeed a striking and unprecedented
policy decision I think it is fair to
say that this is the most significant
step any us Administration in history uh
has taken in response to Violence by
Israeli settlers against Palestinian
civilians uh in the West Bank and indeed
proves a greater frustration uh of the
Biden Administration but not only that
it also
underscores uh the immense pressure
President Biden faces in this year which
is just the beginning of a crucial
presidential election year 70% of his
party disapproves of his Israeli Israel
Israel policies sorry and uh he indeed
risks losing crucial support from black
voters younger voters and of course Arab
Americans if he is unable to exert
pressure on Israel to commit to a
lasting ceasefire and agree to a two
State solution and Phil it's no
coincident that this order comes uh
right uh in the moment before President
Biden was on his way to Michigan this is
an important swing state with a large
Arab American Community okay thank you
for that uh Inus pole in
Washington let's get more on this from
DW special correspondent de Ibrahim in
Jerusalem this initial round targets
four individuals they've been named in
uh uh press releases uh from the Biden
Administration these are Financial uh
sanctions that are aimed at making sure
that these four individuals which the US
says have been involved in violent
attacks on Palestinians and Israeli
settler Israeli uh activists peace
activists in the West Bank uh they're
aimed at making sure that they do not
use the US Financial system a and that
also to prevent American uh citizens
from financially uh dealing with them
like as you have mentioned uh the Prime
Minister has already reacted to this um
to to this uh executive order saying
that it is UN necessary but also saying
that Israeli authorities do uh what
they're supposed to do to to to deal
with this kind of violence in the
occupied West Bank which is something
that rights groups and Palestinians that
I've spoken to in the West Bank will
tell you just does not happen according
to rights organizations there's
documented evidence that the Israeli
Defense Forces and the Israeli police
has often times either accompanying
settlers as they uh uh as they conduct
these attacks or is sometimes uh even
helping them with these attacks and
these attacks have seen an increase
since the October 7th uh uh Hamas Terror
attacks on uh Israel their violence in
the occupied West Bank has been
spiraling uh since then and in fact um
the United Nations has documented that
over a thousand Palestinians
uh have been displaced in the occupied
West Bank these are bedwin uh
communities as a result of uh these
attacks and all of this of course
undermines uh what the US says is its
policy which is eventually reaching a
two-state solution because um it is
widely considered that the occupied West
Bank would uh form uh the heart of any
future Palestinian State and with every
displacement of a Palestinian that goal
uh is pushed uh even uh further so this
is very much in line with what the US
says is its policy in the region thanks
a a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem